# American Exceptionalism: Overrated or Underrated?
## An ideological Turing test

Many in the United States view their country as exceptional. "We live in the
greatest country in the world," our politicians tell us, and that puts a
special responsibility on our shoulders that no other country bears. We are
responsible for promoting peace and prosperity throughout the world, to
make sure liberal democratic values continues to spread.

But is it true? Are we that different from other powerful hegemons throughout
history? And is this belief more an asset, or a liability, as we act on the
world stage and work to overcome our own domastic problems?

I present two essays on this topic. The first, [American Exceptionalism is
Underrated]() argues that the United States is in fact exceptional, different
from other empires throughout history. It further argues that we need to take
our exceptional status more seriously, to remind us of our duties and motivate
ourselves to continue improving ourselves and the world.

The second, [American Exceptionalism is Overrated]() argues the opposite, that
we aren't that different from Chinese or British empires. It argues that the
popular notion is pernicious, that by discarding it we will be a more virtous
people, better prepared to face the problems we must overcome.

The aim is two articulate two opposed positions, so that people who genuinely
hold those positions will agree that I have done their beliefs justice. I hope
to articulate each position so well that readers who share one of the positions
articulated are convinced that I agree with them. There are two other logically
possible positions: that American Exceptionalism is true, but is more a libility
than an asset, so we should assert it less and be less attached to it than we
are; and that American Exceptionalism is false, but is nonetheless a useful
myth, and we should foster it even more than we do. I ignore both of these
possibilities in the interest of time, and because they aren't especially
popular positions.

Before starting either essay, I'd like to clarify what I mean by American
Exceptionalism. The United States' governement is currently the worlds oldest
democracy. Something about the way that government came to exist, it's history
with slavery, our extended frontier, and our policy of mass immigration have
produced a mix of human talent and cultural, economic, and civic institutions
that exist nowhere else. This exceptional mix has made us powerful economically
and millitarily, and those facts place on us the burden to be our best for
ourselves, to be an example for the world, and to promote peace and prosperity
thoroughout the world. This is this notion of exceptionalism that I defend,
and it is the one that I attack.
